[ADD] inventory: fefo removal (#7294)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/advanced_operations_warehouse/fefo.rst

number of days specified in the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` of the product form. The removal date
takes this expiration date and subtracts the number of days specified in the :guilabel:`Removal
Date` of the product form.

.. note::
   For more information about expiration dates, reference the :doc:`Expiration dates
   <../../product_management/product_tracking/expiration_dates>` document.

.. example::
   In the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab of the product, egg, the following :guilabel:`Dates` are set by
   the user:

   - :guilabel:`Expiration Date`: `30` days after receipt
   - :guilabel:`Removal Date`: `15` days after expiration date

   .. image:: fefo/user-set-date.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Display expiration and removal dates set on the product form.

   Eggs, received from the vendor, arrive at the warehouse on January 1st. So, the expiration date
   of the eggs is **January 31st** (Jan 1st + 30). By extension, the removal date is **January
   16th** (Jan 31 - 15).

.. _inventory/removal/exp-date:

To view the expiration dates of items in stock, navigate to the product form and click the
:guilabel:`On Hand` smart button.

> Next, click the additional options icon on the far right and select the columns
> :guilabel:`Expiration Date` and :guilabel:`Removal Date`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click the additional options icon, located on the far-right, and select the columns:
:guilabel:`Expiration Date` and :guilabel:`Removal Date`.
```

.. image:: fefo/removal-date.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Show expiration dates from the inventory adjustments model accessed from the *On Hand*
         smart button from the product form.

Workflow
--------

Using the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal strategy ensures that products with the
nearest removal date are picked first.

> To understand how this removal strategy works, consider the following example below about the
> product, `Egg carton`, which is a box containing twelve eggs. The product is tracked :guilabel:`By
> Lots`, and the product category's :guilabel:`Force Removal Strategy` is set to :guilabel:`First
> Expired, First Out (FEFO)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand how this removal strategy works, consider the following example below about the
product, `Carton of eggs`, which is a box containing twelve eggs.

The product is tracked :guilabel:`By Lots`, and the product category's :guilabel:`Force Removal
Strategy` is set to :guilabel:`First Expired, First Out (FEFO)`.
```

.. seealso::
   - :ref:`Set up force removal strategy <inventory/routes/strategies/set>`
   - :ref:`Enable lots tracking <inventory/removal/lots-setup>`
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Perishable Products <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8zAlNcdg0ig>`_

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * -
     - LOT1
     - LOT2
     - LOT3
   * - On-hand stock
     - 5
     - 2
     - 1
   * - Expiration date
     - April 4
     - April 10
     - April 15
   * - :ref:`Removal date <inventory/removal/exp-date>`
     - February 26
     - March 4
     - March 9

To see the removal strategy in action, create a :ref:`delivery order <inventory/delivery/one-step>`

> for six cartons of eggs, either by going to the :menuselection:`Sales app` and creating a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for six Cartons of eggs, either by going to the :menuselection:`Sales app` and creating a new
```

> quotation, or from the delivery orders dashboard in :menuselection:`Inventory --> Operations -->
> Deliveries`. :guilabel:`Confirm` the sales order or click :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` on the draft
> delivery order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quotation, or from the delivery orders dashboard in :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations -->
Deliveries`. :guilabel:`Confirm` the sales order, or click :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` on the draft
delivery order.
```

Doing so creates the delivery order for today, December 29th, and the lot numbers with the soonest

> expiration dates are reserved thanks to the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal
> strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expiration dates are reserved, thanks to the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal
strategy.
```

> To view the detailed pickings, click the :guilabel:`⦙≣ (bulleted list)` icon on the far right of the
> egg's product line in the :guilabel:`Operations` tab of the delivery order. Doing so opens the
> :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` pop-up window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the detailed pickings, click the :guilabel:`⦙≣ (bulleted list)` icon, located on the
far-right of the Carton of egg's product line, in the :guilabel:`Operations` tab of the delivery
order. Doing so opens the :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` pop-up window.
```

> In the :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` window, the :guilabel:`Pick from` field details where the
> quantities to fulfill the :guilabel:`Demand` are picked from. Since the order demanded six cartons
> of eggs, using the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal strategy, all five cartons from
> `LOT1` with the removal date of February 26th are picked. The remaining carton is selected from the
> `LOT2`, which has a removal date of March 4.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` pop-up window, the :guilabel:`Pick from` field display where the
quantities to fulfill the :guilabel:`Demand` are picked from.

Since the order demanded six Cartons of eggs, using the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)`
removal strategy, all five Cartons from `LOT1`, with the removal date of February 26th are picked.
The remaining Carton is selected from `LOT2`, which has a removal date of March 4th.
```

Under the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, ensure the :guilabel:`Tracking` field is set to either
:guilabel:`By Lots` or :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number`.

Next, select the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` option, which makes the :guilabel:`Removal Date` field
(and other date fields) appear.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Lots and Serial Numbers` and :guilabel:`Expiration Dates` features **must** be
   enabled in :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings` to track expiration
   dates.

The expiration date of a product is determined by adding the date the product was received to the
number of days specified in the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` field of the product form.

The removal date takes this expiration date, and subtracts the number of days specified in the
:guilabel:`Removal Date` field of the product form.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`Expiration dates <../../product_management/product_tracking/expiration_dates>`

.. example::
   In the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab of the product, `Egg`, the following :guilabel:`Dates` are set
   by the user:

   - :guilabel:`Expiration Date`: `30` days after receipt

>    - :guilabel:`Removal Date`: `15` days after expiration date

Reviewer 2: think it's before instead of after here, according to the screenshot?
```suggestion
   - :guilabel:`Removal Date`: `15` days before expiration date
```

============
FEFO removal
============

The *First Expired, First Out* (FEFO) removal strategy targets products for removal based on their
assigned removal dates.

.. seealso::
   - `Odoo Tutorials: FEFO <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/5443/share>`_
   - :doc:`Other removal strategies <removal>`

> .. _inventory/warehouses_storage/removal-date:

Reviewer 3: I like the way that this intro is structured, a brief description of the strategy followed by the link to the general removal strategy doc. Then you jump into a deeper description and example. I would restructure the rest of the docs this way.

Removal date
------------

> Products **must** be removed from an inventory before their *removal date*, which is set as a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Products **must** be removed from inventory before their *removal date*, which is set as a
```

certain number of days before the product's *expiration date*.

The user sets this number of days by navigating to the product form's :guilabel:`Inventory` tab.

> Under the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, ensure the :guilabel:`Tracking` is set to either
> :guilabel:`By Lots` or :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Under the :guilabel:`Traceability` section, ensure the :guilabel:`Tracking` field is set to either
:guilabel:`By Lots` or :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number`.
```

> Next, check the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` option, which makes the :guilabel:`Removal Date` (and
> other dates) appear.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next, check the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` option, which makes the :guilabel:`Removal Date` field (and
other date fields) appear.
```

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`Lots and Serial Numbers` and :guilabel:`Expiration Dates` features **must** be
   enabled in :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration --> Settings` to track expiration
   dates.

The expiration date of a product is determined by adding the date the product was received to the
number of days specified in the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` field of the product form.

The removal date takes this expiration date, and subtracts the number of days specified in the

> :guilabel:`Removal Date` of the product form.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Removal Date` field of the product form.
```

.. note::
   For more information about expiration dates, reference the :doc:`Expiration dates
   <../../product_management/product_tracking/expiration_dates>` document.

.. example::
   In the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab of the product, `Egg`, the following :guilabel:`Dates` are set
   by the user:

   - :guilabel:`Expiration Date`: `30` days after receipt
   - :guilabel:`Removal Date`: `15` days after expiration date

   .. image:: fefo/user-set-date.png
      :align: center
      :alt: Display expiration and removal dates set on the product form.

>    Eggs, received from the vendor, arrive at the warehouse on January 1st. So, the expiration date

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   A shipment of Eggs arrive at the warehouse on January 1st. So, the expiration date
```

   - :ref:`Set up force removal strategy <inventory/warehouses_storage/removal-config>`
   - :ref:`Enable lots tracking <inventory/warehouses_storage/lots-setup>`
   - `Odoo Tutorials: Perishable Products <https://www.odoo.com/slides/slide/5324/share>`_

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :stub-columns: 1

   * -
     - LOT1
     - LOT2
     - LOT3
   * - On-hand stock
     - 5
     - 2
     - 1
   * - Expiration date
     - April 4
     - April 10
     - April 15
   * - :ref:`Removal date <inventory/warehouses_storage/exp-date>`
     - February 26
     - March 4
     - March 9

To see the removal strategy in action, create a :ref:`delivery order <inventory/delivery/one-step>`
for six Cartons of eggs, either by going to the :menuselection:`Sales app` and creating a new
quotation, or from the delivery orders dashboard in :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations -->
Deliveries`. :guilabel:`Confirm` the sales order, or click :guilabel:`Mark as Todo` on the draft
delivery order.

Doing so creates the delivery order for today, December 29th, and the lot numbers with the soonest
expiration dates are reserved, thanks to the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)` removal

> strategy.

Reviewer 3: Rewrite this to remove the workflow for creating a delivery order directly. I'll leave this comment on each of the docs as a reminder.

To view the detailed pickings, click the :guilabel:`⦙≣ (bulleted list)` icon, located on the
far-right of the Carton of egg's product line, in the :guilabel:`Operations` tab of the delivery
order. Doing so opens the :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` pop-up window.

> In the :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` pop-up window, the :guilabel:`Pick from` field display where the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the :guilabel:`Open: Stock move` pop-up window, the :guilabel:`Pick from` field displays where the
```

quantities to fulfill the :guilabel:`Demand` are picked from.

Since the order demanded six Cartons of eggs, using the :abbr:`FEFO (First Expired, First Out)`

> removal strategy, all five Cartons from `LOT1`, with the removal date of February 26th are picked.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
removal strategy, all five Cartons from `LOT1`, with the removal date of February 26th, are picked.
```
